# RedmapperDecade

cc: Dhayaa Anbajagane (dhayaa@uchicago.edu)

This repo contains the relevant pipeline code for running Redmapper on any photometric data. It has the following:

1. RedmapperRoman: The main pipeline adopted Dhayaa's code for DECADE/DECam
2. elidestools: A set of tools from Eli Rykoff written for DES that are requires for generating some inputs for Redmapper. Particularly, a depth map used in redmapper.
3. calibdata: Inputs to redmapper that have been generated by Dhayaa for LSST and Roman. Folder also has scripts to regenerate if needed.
4. sims: Example scripts to generate input catalogs from sims.

## How do I install?

This repo is designed to contain all necessary pieces for running Redmapper. As a result it is not organized as a single python package, but inter-dependent pieces.

1. Clone Dhayaa's modified version of redmapper `git clone https://github.com/DhayaaAnbajagane/redmapper.git` and install it as `cd redmapper; pip install .`. The setup.py approach won't work here (even though the file exists)
2. Clone this repo locally `git clone https://github.com/Roman-HLIS-Cosmology-PIT/RedmapperRoman.git`.
3. Next we will install `elidestools` as a standalone package. `cd RedmapperRoman/elidestools; python setup.py install`. This will install the package into your environment.   

That is everything you need to install! The rest of the code can be run by simple imports of the relevant functions/classes. I run this by calling the module from the cmdline. So as `PYTHONPATH={PATH_TO_RedmapperRoman repo} python -u -m RedmapperRoman.Runner.py {FLAGS}`. Running it in module mode helps with consistent importing of other modules (which are defined as relative imports).


## How do I run this?

The main workflow is the following:

1. Take your input catalog (ID, photometry, ra, dec is all you need) and put it into a hdf5 file. Use the `sims/Make_cardinal.py` file as an example of this for Cardinal. 
    - This catalog should have all the relevant object and area masks already applied.
2. You will need the following maps (either at NSIDE = 4096, or in Healsparse format):
    - A footprint map, with values between 0 < f < 1, indicating what fraction of a pixel was observed by a survey
    - A foreground map, which is 0 in regions where observations can be used and non-zero elsewhere. Star masks, galaxy masks, etc. go in here.
    - Survey property (SP) maps, which are estimates of the exposure time, depth, airmass, PSF FWHM, etc. across the survey. This is used to compute the effective depth of the measurements we will be making. 
        - Note that we search for SP maps using the string "{SPmap_path}\_{band}\_{systematic}". 
        - We need five systematic maps by default, "['maglim', 'fwhm', 'airmass', 'exptime', 'skybrite']". You can change this as you wish, but need to always have maglim present, and need to have at least one other map that isn't maglim.
    - Spec-z catalog, which is a fits file with the spec-z info. Look at `sims/Make_cardinal.py` for the format of how this was done for Cardinal.
3. Inputs of the color-model and mag_star model for the survey's bandpasses. These are used by Redmapper to make an initial selection of galaxies.
    - These are computed in Ezgal, and can be found in the `/calibdata` directory.
    - There are already files to run lsst mode (ugriz), roman mode (the 4 F-bands), or both.
    - If you want to run lsst/roman with just a subset of the filters, you will need to remake these files with just those bandpasses.
4. Follow the job-script in `example.sh`. The main runner is in `RedmapperRoman/Runner.py`. It is fairly easy to build inherited classes and modify it if needed, though you shouldn't have to do this for your work.

The job broadly takes me about 24 hours on a 28 processes, for the Cardinal run. The slowest parts are the actual redmapper cluster finding, and some of the redmagic finding as well. For more details on redmapper, read [this How-to by Eli](https://github.com/DhayaaAnbajagane/redmapper/blob/main/how-to/README.md).


## Command line arguments

`outdir`: The directory to be using for outputs. Note that redmapper will put some outputs in a new directory `{outdir}\_run`.

`input_catalog_hdf5`: Input hdf5 file with ra, dec, and photometry. See `sims/Make_Cardinal.py` for examples of how to make this.

`input_specz`: A fits file with ra, dec, z_spec, and z_err. See `sims/Make_Cardinal.py` for examples of how to make this.

`fracdet_map`: A healpix map where each pixel is the fraction of sky covered by a survey.

`foreground_map`: A healpix map where each pixel is 0 if it can be used and non-zero if not. Includes star mask, extinction etc. Must be same NSIDE as `fracdet_map`.

`SPmap_path`: A path (directory plus prefix) to the survey property maps. We will search for maps with the string "{SPmap_path}\_{band}\_{systematic}".

`n_jobs`: Number of jobs to parallelize some steps of the runner. Note that some tasks are memory-limited, and redmapper's parallelization can (annoyingly) OoM without throwing an error. If you find a run is unreasonably slow, you'll need to edit this value.

`survey`: Can be any of SDSS, DES, LSST, ROMAN, or LSST_ROMAN.

`SPmap_names`: The names of the SP maps being used to compute the effective depth map. Default is "maglim,fwhm,airmass,exptime,skybrite".

`seed`: A random seed used to select the calibration healpixels. Defaults to 42.

`calib_dir`: Avoid using this for now. It is designed such that the calibration step can be run on dataset A, and the actual run on dataset B. So calib_dir would point to the redmapper run on Dataset A.

`bands`: comma-separated string of the bands to be used. Possible options are "U,G,R,I,Z,Y,F106,F129,F158,F184". The `survey` keyword identifies which bands are to be used, so these need to be consistent. If you say survey is lsst, but supply "F106,F129" the code will crash.

`bands_inds`: What are the indices of the bands. It is best to just use 0,1,2,3,4,...,Nbands.

`refband` : Redmapper uses one band to compute the effective completeness, volume-limit of the data. It's best to pick a band that is sufficiently precise for characterizing objects across many redshifts.

`config_override` : Path to a yaml file that contains the parameter values you want to override (relative to the defaults). This file should have the same structure as the redmapper configs from Eli: https://github.com/DhayaaAnbajagane/redmapper/blob/main/how-to/cal_example.yml. We use the params in your override file, look for the params in the run's config and override them. So naming consistency is critical.


## Python runner arguments

In addition to the above, there are a few arguments that can be used in the Python Runner that I didn't write the argparse entry for. These are:

`nside_split` : This splits the data into subpixels for processing. Higher means more splitting, but note that redmapper will internally process adjacent pixels together to avoid edge-effects. If you subdivide a lot, you may still not get a speedup due to redmapper collating neighbor pixels. Default is 32.

`Nrandoms` : Number of random points to generate when constructing random catalogs for the cluster catalog. Default is 1,000,000.

`z_range` : The minimum and maximum redshift to consider for the cluster candidate. Default is [0.1, 0.95]